R in challenging environments      (WINdows...corporate)
========================================================
author: Walter (Djuric)   
date: 2019-06-27
autosize: true 
font-family: 'Helvetica'


The Environment
========================================================

- WINDOWS 10 Enterprise (1803) 
- proxy internet servers   
- firewalls all over the place 
- Antivirus (AV) Software (SW) on all workstations  
- the called 'RWin' SW package (it includes RStudio 1.1.383 and R-3.4.2) available via the IT dept.
- 12 users who are proficient in Excel (but usually no VBA or SQL skills) 
- access to Oracle DBs (via port tunnels - see above regarding firewalls) handled by 1 proficient SQL user  
- querying MSSQL-SSAS (aka Cubes) via Excel Addin    


Dealing with the obstacles 
========================================================

## - the OS -> we will have to live with     
## - the Internet Proxy -> ~/.Renviron 
## - modify R/etc/.../Makeconf 
## - enhance the .Rprofile of (your) colleagues -> ~/.Rprofile
## - build a dedicated 'Accounting' utilities package on a network drive incl. local CRAN repo 
## - Misc 


Define the http_proxy 
========================================================

First thing - after starting RStudio - type into Console  


```r
file.edit("~/.Renviron")
```
and define the proxy-address which you can usually find out somewhere in your browsers settings.      
While at it, ask your company IT to install a decent browser (usually Firefox or Chrome will be offered by most company IT depts as IE alternatives). 


```eval
http_proxy=proxy-some.proxy.net:PORT
```

Change BINPREF in Makeconf  
========================================================

Go to  ```R.home()/etc/i386|x64/Makeconf```  and     

look/search for the BINPREF definition (ie the Rtools path) and change that accordingly to fit the company R_HOME setup,     

otherwise installing from source will become a pain in the neck.      

Of course it is much more "elegant" to do these things programmatically as shown in the next slide. 

Modified .Rprofile   
========================================================

Adjust thw .Rprofile files of the team memebers via distributing a link to a WIN .bat file (placed on network folder), they are supposed to run/double-click. 
A batch file that writes .Renviron and .Rprofile could look like this. 









```
processing file: VR-2019-06-27_WDpres.Rpres
Quitting from lines 67-101 (VR-2019-06-27_WDpres.Rpres) 
Error: '\U' used without hex digits in character string starting "':: change from home dir to a to NON-UNC path folder since these are NOT much appreciated by WIN+R
cd C:\U"
In addition: Warning message:
In get_engine(options$engine) :
  Unknown language engine 'eval' (must be registered via knit_engines$set()).
Execution halted
```
